Editing branch PR for new api-led core journey (#61)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/api-led-develop.adoc

= Develop the API Interface and Implementation
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Now that you have created an API specification, you can build and test the API you plan to deploy.

Reviewer: I'm going to stop editing to change the colloquial tone, which I would typically do for docs that aren't tutorials. So, I'll ignore the "now"s and the "we"s and so forth. Just FYI.

Author: this is a kind of tutorial.

> We'll build the business logic into an implementation XML file, and then import the API specification

Reviewer: In the steps that follow, don't we import the spec before building the implementation file?

Author: fixed. thanks!

> to take advantage of the automated scaffolding that Studio and APIkit provide, in order to complete the API interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to take advantage of the automated scaffolding that Studio and APIkit provide, to complete the API interface.
```

Reviewer: I was tempted to break the previous sentence into two.

Author: Great catch! I changed this into an ordered list, which gets rid of all the "we" stuff.

Author: done.

Finally, we'll add unit tests and test the API, all from Studio.

> 

Reviewer: At this point, the intro narrative has led me to expect subtopics (Level 2: ==) for each of:

Build file (business logic + implementation XML file = API?)
Import spec/complete interface
Test units
Test API

But there is only one Level-2, and that is Build the API.

Perhaps "Build the API" should be the container topic title, rather than "= Develop the API Interface and Implementation"?

I feel like we have a bunch of different terms representing the same user actions and results.

Reviewer: Visual:

= Develop the API Interface and Implementation (intro == topics)
== Build the API (intro === topics)
=== Step 1: Add Your Anypoint Platform Credentials to Studio (all 5 peers)
=== Step 2: Create a New Project with an Imported API Specification
=== Step 3: Configure the RESTful API Interface
=== Step 4: Create the RESTful API Implementation
=== Step 5. Test the API
== Next Steps (peer to prev ==)

Author: Great catch. I had more than "build the api" then moved stuff around. I wrote two intros :(

Author: done.

== Build the API

> You've created an API specification--now it's time to create the API (or connect to an existing one using the information in the specification).

Reviewer: I've been taught to avoid typewriter symbols, and creating em-dashes has traditionally taken more work than they are worth. Consider replacing any pause indicated by hyphens, with or without spaces, with a period, semicolon, or colon, as appropriate.
Global.

Reviewer: Would it be too vague to use
```suggestion
You've created an API specification; now it's time to connect to or create the API).
```

Author: Em dash is useful here to emphasize the conclusion--it's the important part. (See what I did there?!) Agree that em dashes shouldn't be used often. Asciidoc renders them properly:
https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-writers-guide/#complex-list-content.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39537186/72173549-ad0d7600-338c-11ea-8c20-902c5779a5c2.png)

> In MuleSoft, you package the business logic (implementation) and the interface in an application that is deployed to a Mule runtime engine instance.

Reviewer: The wording of this sentence hearkens back to the current container topic title in using "implementation" and "interface," but it follows the "Build an API" title. Again, it seems like we are making the language harder than it has to be and using similar terms to mean one thing, instead of just using one term for one thing.
Ditto prev. comment "Build file (business logic + implementation XML file = API?)"

Author: Fixed (I had two different intros. I'm sorry this was so messy!

> The steps in this section assume you have launched Studio before each Step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps in this section assume you are already in the Anypoint Studio interface.
```

Author: Removed with other edit.

=== Step 1: Add Your Anypoint Platform Credentials to Studio

Add your Anypoint Platform credentials in Studio once, and they'll be available for all the projects you create.

> . In Studio, open the *Preferences* dialog.

Reviewer: Does this mean the same thing:
```suggestion
. In Studio, click *Preferences*.
```

Author: done.

. Select *Anypoint Studio > Authentication*.
. Enter your Anypoint Platform username and password.
. Click *Sign in*.
. Click *Apply and Close*.

> These credentials are available for the duration indicated when you entered them, seven days by default.

Reviewer: The intro text states that the credentials are "available for all the projects you create," which is not necessarily within seven days or for a duration indicated.
Also...there is no step for specifying a custom duration?

Author: done.

=== Step 2: Create a New Project with an Imported API Specification

> 

Reviewer: As someone new to this, I am wondering at this point what a "new project" is (API?) and why I am importing the API spec I created. 
I wonder how this relates to the prev. sentence "You've created an API specification; now it's time to connect to or create the API)." Is the API a new one or an existing one? Don't I have to create or leverage an existing API before I can deploy it to a target? 
Again, is building the interface and implementation the same as building the API? And is this being called "a new project"?

Reviewer: Should this title be "Import Your API Spec to Studio", since the final step here is verifying the import operation was successful?

Author: Added "Studio". I want to call out the import API Spec action in the title.

> To deploy an API to the Mule runtime engine in the target of your choice, 

Reviewer: This first phrase seems to restate the objective of the entire task, not specifically this step.

Author: It does. Setting context (because we never do this anywhere else. There may be a better place for this in future.)

Author: Changed the verbiage to make it clearer.

build the interface and implementation in a Mule app using Studio. In this step,

> we'll create the project.

Reviewer: To what part of building the interface and implementation does "create the project" refer?

Author: great catch. Added "within a Studio project after "in a Mule app"

> . In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.

Reviewer: If we begin all Steps 1 with "In Studio," then we do not need the sentence "The steps in this section assume you are already in the Anypoint Studio interface."

Author: deleted.

. In the dialog box, provide the following values:

>   ** *Project Name*: Hello-World

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ** *Project Name*: Type *`Hello-World`*.
```
For parallelism

Author: Not bold. We need to talk about these conventions.

>   ** *Runtime*: If there is a choice, select the latest version of Mule. This is the Mule runtime engine that is hosted within Studio for testing.

Reviewer: GLOBAL suggestion that list items and steps not exceed one phrase or sentence:
```suggestion
  ** *Runtime*: If there is a choice, select the latest version of Mule. 
  This is the Mule runtime engine that is hosted within Studio for testing.
```

Author: Avoided where possible. We have a few areas where explanation in the task helps build the mental model.

>   ** Select the *From Design Center or local files* tab.

Reviewer: Is this still in the dialog box?
If not, promote to a step.
If so...can you think of a way to not nest the user actions so deeply here?

Author: Still in the dialog box. the nesting helps the reader understand all the steps are in this section of the dialog box.
The last few steps go back to level 1, I fixed those. Developer IDEs can be dense/nested. I don't know how else to help the customer except to (correctly!) mimic the nesting.

    . Click the button to the right of the *Location* field.
    . Select *Design Center*.

>     . If the correct username for your Anypoint Platform org appears, you'll see a list of API specifications.

Reviewer: This should be plain text below the previous step; it is not itself a user action.

Reviewer: Do we want to use the abbr "org" here to go with the casual tone?

Author: We haven't adopted the SFDC "org" short phrase yet. changed to organization.

>     . Choose *Hello World*.

Reviewer: choose > click or select

Author: done.

    . Click *OK*.

>     . Make sure the checkbox *Scaffold flows from these API specifications* is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    . Verify that the checkbox *Scaffold flows from these API specifications* is selected.
```

Author: done.

    . To verify the import, check Package Explorer for `hello-world/src/main/resources/api/hello-world.raml`.

> Studio opens the *hello-world.xml* XML file,

Reviewer: Why format a file name?

Author: I used the wrong format, it should be `hello...` not *hello...*

Author: Formatting file names, URIs, and other "code" in monospace is an industry standard. I've only ever seen it not done in some sites which are abandoning all special treatments (bold for UI).

which contains some of the basic elements you'll need for the API interface. Next, we'll configure these elements,
and later on we'll create the business logic in a separate XML file for the implementation. 

> === Step 3: Configure the RESTful API Interface

Reviewer: Earlier refs to the API interface have not included RESTful; should they?

Author: Changed to REST.

Using the scaffolding provided by Studio, complete the RESTful API interface:

. In Studio, right-click `hello-world/src/main/mule/hello-world.xml` and select *Refactor > Rename*.

> . Rename the file: `interface.xml`.

Reviewer: colon not nec
```suggestion
. Rename the file `interface.xml`.
```

Author: done.

. Configure the main listener:

>   .. In the canvas, click the *hello-world-main* Listener to display the General configuration tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. In the Studio canvas, click the *hello-world-main* Listener to display the General configuration tab.
```

Reviewer: Is there a difference between "main listener"  and the hello-world-main "Listener" that requires the change in capitalization? 
Search for globally and standardize, if not.

Author: changed to "interface listener" to contrast with implementation listener, which is just named Listener.

>   .. Click the green plus sign to create a global configuration for HTTP listeners in this project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. Click the green plus sign (+) to create a global configuration for HTTP listeners in this project.
```
OR
```suggestion
  .. Click the green + symbol to create a global configuration for HTTP listeners in this project.
```

Author: "green plus sign" exists 234 times in our content
"green + symbol" exists zero times.

I'll stick with what we do now, for now. Happy to talk about changing this if there's a business case for it.

  .. Verify that the host is `0.0.0.0` and the port is `8081`.
  .. Click *Test Connection*, and then click *OK* when the connection is successful.

>   .. If you click *Global Elements* at the bottom of the canvas, you'll see this configuration is a global configuration.

Reviewer: Not a step; reword or reformat.

. Click *Configuration XML* at the bottom of the canvas to see the XML that has been created.

Once we have an implementation set up, we'll return to `interface.xml`.

=== Step 4: Create the RESTful API Implementation

Find and assemble the elements needed to define the business logic of your API:

> 

Reviewer: So creating an API implementation = defining the API business logic.
Can we not use two separate terms?

Author: I think you mean why are we using both terms for the same thing? Because not everyone knows that implementation means "business logic" in this context (some use it to mean the whole API). I may have said it too often?

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Configuration File*.
. Select the project `hello-world`, and then name the file `implementation.xml`.
. Click *Finish*.
. Add an HTTP connector endpoint to receive requests:

>   .. In the *Mule Palette*, select *HTTP*, the HTTP module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. In *Mule Palette*, select *HTTP*, the HTTP module.
```

Author: done.

>   .. Drag *Listener* from the *Mule Palette* to the canvas. This action creates a flow containing the listener.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. Drag *Listener* from *Mule Palette* to the canvas. 
  This action creates a flow containing the listener.
```

Author: done.

. Specify the global properties that the Listener needs:

>   .. Double-click HTTP Listener.

Reviewer: If the user is clicking the label, then the label should be in bold.
Also, per prev comment, note different caps for "listener."

Author: they aren't double-clicking the label, they are clicking anywhere on the icon.  changed to "Double-click the HTTP listener (Listener)."

>   .. In the General tab of the Listener properties, notice that the global configuration that you created in Step 3 is displayed. If it is not, select it.

Reviewer: ditto re. not quite a step. 
How about "verify that...; if not, select" or "Select ...if the...is not displayed in the...."

Author: deleted "notice that"

  .. Set *Path* to */greeting*, the resource we specified in xref:api-led-design.adoc[Design an API specification].
  .. Save your changes.

> . Specify logic to display the data from Hello World:

Reviewer: Should Hello World have formatting here? A hyphen? Be specified as "the Hello World <object>"?

Author: Hello World is the API
hello-world is the Studio project name
changed to be clearer: "...the data sent from Hello World API"

>   .. Return to the *Mule Palette* and select *Favorites* or *Core* to display the *Set Payload* transformer.

Reviewer: Is the label in Studio actually the words and capitalization "Mule Palette"?
In Connectors, we've been using "Mule Palette tab," "the palette," or "the Mule Palette view."

Author: yes, that's the label: 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39537186/72183850-ddacda00-33a3-11ea-8f8f-8add74b409a9.png)

  .. Find and drag *Set Payload* into the flow and leave it selected.
  .. In the *General* tab, set *Value* under *Settings* to *Today the greeting is Hello.*

> . Save your work, and then review the XML generated by your work in *Configuration XML*, and then return to *Message Flow*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save your work, review the XML generated by your work in *Configuration XML*, and then return to *Message Flow*.
```
Consider making this two or three steps rather than one.

Author: done. This is the summary of what they are doing, and it's one task, so leaving as one sentence.

Author: nope. I was wrong. Changed into steps.

> You have created a simple Mule app with an interface and an implementation.

Reviewer: This sounds like the previous steps created both interface and implementation.
```suggestion
At this point, you have created a simple Mule app, with both an interface and an implementation.
```

> Studio provides a Mule runtime engine wher you can deploy and run your app for testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Studio provides a Mule runtime engine where you can deploy and run your app for testing.
```

Author: Deleted, it can wait for the next step.

=== Step 5. Test the API

Run the Studio project that contains your API in the Mule runtime engine and then test with a third-party client:

> 

Reviewer: Wouldn't a client always (or likely) be "third-party"?
Do we want to specify "non-MuleSoft" instead?

Reviewer: Or do we want to be specific to the Prerequisites and the step below?

To test REST requests, obtain **a client such as Postman or Advanced REST Client**.
To exercise the app, open **a REST client (Postman)** and issue a GET request

Author: In context of the prereq, it's clear that the client is third party.
once the cusomter has visited so many different features on the platform, they might not be sure what kind of client I'm talking about. There are consoles embedded in API Manager & Studio that function as clients.

. Right-click anywhere on the canvas and select *Run project hello world*.

> . The console opens and displays status messages as the app is deployed to the Mule runtime engine (Mule) contained within Studio.

Reviewer: Not a user step, unless we reword this to "Verify that...."

Author: Great catch. Fixed formatting and added missing message.
Done.

+
When the following message is displayed, the app containing your API has been deployed to Mule.

> . To exercise the app, open a REST client (Postman) and issue a GET request:

Reviewer: "exercise the app"?
initiate? enable?

Author: test
done

  `\http://localhost:8081/greeting`.

> . Your REST client should return a `200 OK` message and the body `Today the greeting is Hello.`.

Reviewer: Not a step.

Author: done.

> . Right-click in the canvas and select *Stop project hello-word*.

Reviewer: Does the UI use both "project hello world" (Line 98) and "project hello-world"?

Author: nope, added dash above.

== What's Next

> Add validation, event logging to support debugging, error handling, and a unit test to your API.

Reviewer: Because it is a longish list, how about
```suggestion
Add to your API validation, event logging to support debugging, error handling, and a unit test.
```

Author: Great catch! made it a list.
done.
